README.md, before:

# Lessons for Librarians in Open Science Principles and Methods

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.18055759.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18055759)
[![Open Materials](https://img.shields.io/badge/open-materials-blue)](https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info)
[![License: CC BY 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC_BY_4.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
[![Lifecycle: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-stable-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#stable)
[![Language: English](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-english-blue.svg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_language)

## Description

This project provides a comprehensive, open-source curriculum hub for librarians covering Open Science principles, data management, and reproducibility. The curriculum consists of 14 peer-reviewed open science lesson plans developed through an Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) funded initiative.

**Target Audience:** Librarians at any career stage seeking to increase their aptitudes in the principles and practices of Open Science.

**Learning Outcomes:** Upon completion of these lessons, learners will be able to:
- Apply open science principles and methods in library instruction and research support
- Effectively collaborate with faculty and researchers on science projects using open science practices
- Provide instruction to new researchers on data management, reproducibility, and open research workflows
- Utilize modern tools and technologies for open and reproducible research

## Rendered Lesson Website

The complete curriculum and lesson materials are available at: **[https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info](https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info)**

## Contact Information

For questions, feedback, or collaboration inquiries, please contact:

- **Tim Dennis** (Program Director) - [tdennis@library.ucla.edu](mailto:tdennis@library.ucla.edu) | [ORCID: 0000-0001-6632-3812](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6632-3812)
- **Zhiyuan Yao** (Program Coordinator) - [ORCID: 0000-0002-7601-8704](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7601-8704)

You can also:
- Open an issue on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ucla-imls-open-sci/ucla-imls-open-sci.github.io/issues)
- Indicate interest in piloting a lesson using our [Pilot Interest tracker](https://github.com/ucla-imls-open-sci/ucla-imls-open-sci.github.io/issues/new?template=pilot-interest.yml)

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community! We are especially interested in:

- **Lesson Pilots**: Community members interested in teaching or field-testing these materials
- **Feedback and Improvements**: Suggestions for enhancing lesson content, clarity, and accessibility
- **Bug Reports**: Identification of technical issues or errors in lessons
- **Translations**: Efforts to make these materials accessible in additional languages
- **New Lesson Ideas**: Proposals for additional open science topics

For detailed contribution guidelines, please see our [content management guide (GUIDE.md)](GUIDE.md).

To contribute:
1. Fork this repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name`)
3. Make your changes and commit them (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature-name`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Credits and Acknowledgements

This project is led by the **UCLA Library Data Science Center** and funded by the **Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS)** as part of the Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian Program.

### Project Team

- **Todd Grappone** - University Librarian, UC Santa Barbara
- **Tim Dennis** - Program Director, UCLA
- **Zhiyuan Yao** - Program Coordinator, UCLA
- **Zikang Eric Huang** - Lesson Infrastructure Developer, UCLA
- **Lawrence Lee** - Lesson Infrastructure Developer, UCLA
- **Madeline Kim** - Lesson Infrastructure Developer, UCLA
- **Hyerin Lee** - UCLA
- **Emily Gong** - UCLA
- **Loretta Hu** - UCLA
- **Elizabeth McAulay** - UCLA

### Review Committee

- **Chris Erdmann** - Head of Open Science, SciLifeLab Data Centre
- **Cody Hennesy** - Computational Research Librarian
- **Elaine Westbrooks** - Carl A. Kroch University Librarian, Cornell University Library
- **Caroline Coward** - Information Science Manager, Jet Propulsion Lab, NASA
- **Yvonne Ivey** - Program Manager, NASA TOPS
- **Juliane Schneider** - Research Librarian, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory

### Lesson Authors

We are grateful to all lesson authors who have contributed their expertise to develop these curriculum modules. Individual lesson authors are credited on each lesson's repository and website.

## Citation

If you use these materials, please cite them as:

Dennis, T., Lee, L., Lee, H., Yao, Z., Gong, E., Hu, L., Huang, Z. E., McAulay, E., Grappone, T., Erdmann, C., & Kim, M. (2025). *Lessons for Librarians in Open Science Principles and Methods* (Version 1.0.6) [Software]. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18055759

For detailed citation information in various formats, please see our [CITATION.cff](CITATION.cff) file.

You can also cite this work using the DOI badge at the top of this README.

## License

The content of this project is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

The underlying source code used to format and display that content is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.txt).

See [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for more details.

## Authors

- [Tim Dennis](https://github.com/jt14den) - [ORCID: 0000-0001-6632-3812](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6632-3812)
- [Lawrence Lee](https://github.com/lawrencenlee) - [ORCID: 0000-0003-1529-2002](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1529-2002)
- Hyerin Lee
- [Zhiyuan Yao](https://github.com/zhiyuanyao) - [ORCID: 0000-0002-7601-8704](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7601-8704)
- Emily Gong
- Loretta Hu
- [Zikang Eric Huang](https://github.com/erhuang) - [ORCID: 0009-0007-9906-6067](https://orcid.org/0009-0007-9906-6067)
- [Elizabeth McAulay](https://github.com/emcaulay) - [ORCID: 0000-0002-8679-9727](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8679-9727)
- [Todd Grappone](https://github.com/tgrappone) - [ORCID: 0000-0003-2218-7200](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2218-7200)
- [Christopher Erdmann](https://github.com/libcce) - [ORCID: 0000-0003-2554-180X](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2554-180X)
- [Madeline Kim](https://github.com/madelinekim) - [ORCID: 0000-0002-2213-201X](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2213-201X)

## Project Status and Activity

### Current Status: **Active** ✅

The project is in active maintenance and development. All 14 lessons have been developed and are available for use and piloting.

### Recent Activity

- **December 2025**: DOI registered on Zenodo (10.5281/zenodo.18055759)
- **2024-2025**: Beta piloting phase and Carpentries Incubator integration
- **September-December 2024**: Lesson refinement and alpha piloting
- **June-August 2024**: Collaborative lesson development workshop
- **April-May 2024**: Accepted lesson proposals announced

### Looking for Pilots!

We are actively seeking community members to pilot these lessons. If you are interested in teaching or field-testing any of these materials, please [indicate your interest here](https://github.com/ucla-imls-open-sci/ucla-imls-open-sci.github.io/issues/new?template=pilot-interest.yml).

---

## Technical Documentation

### Tech Stack

This site uses:
- **Framework**: Astro (v5)
- **Styling**: SCSS (Bootstrap-based Agency theme)
- **Content**: YAML data files and Markdown
- **Deployment**: GitHub Actions → GitHub Pages

### Development

#### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18 or higher recommended)
- npm

#### Quick Start

1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Start the local development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Access the site at http://localhost:4321

3. Build for production:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```
   The output will be generated in the `dist/` directory.

### Managing Content

For detailed instructions on how to add lessons, update authors, or write blog posts, please refer to [GUIDE.md](GUIDE.md).

#### Key Data Files
- `src/data/lessons.yml`: The master list of all curriculum modules and external resources
- `src/data/sitetext.yml`: Author profiles, staff list, and general site text
- `src/content/blog/`: Markdown files for blog posts

---

## GitHub Topics

This repository is tagged with the following topics for discoverability:
- `lesson`
- `carpentries`
- `open-science`
- `librarians`
- `curriculum`
- `data-science`
- `reproducibility`
- `imls`
- `english`
- `stable`

---

**Funded by**: Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) - Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian Program
**Hosted by**: UCLA Library Data Science Center

Commit message:

docs: update README to reflect keystatic data structure

README.md, after:

# Lessons for Librarians in Open Science Principles and Methods

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.18055759.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18055759)
[![Open Materials](https://img.shields.io/badge/open-materials-blue)](https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info)
[![License: CC BY 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC_BY_4.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
[![Lifecycle: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-stable-brightgreen.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#stable)
[![Language: English](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-english-blue.svg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_language)

## Description

This project provides a comprehensive, open-source curriculum hub for librarians covering Open Science principles, data management, and reproducibility. The curriculum consists of 14 peer-reviewed open science lesson plans developed through an Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) funded initiative.

**Target Audience:** Librarians at any career stage seeking to increase their aptitudes in the principles and practices of Open Science.

**Learning Outcomes:** Upon completion of these lessons, learners will be able to:
- Apply open science principles and methods in library instruction and research support
- Effectively collaborate with faculty and researchers on science projects using open science practices
- Provide instruction to new researchers on data management, reproducibility, and open research workflows
- Utilize modern tools and technologies for open and reproducible research

## Rendered Lesson Website

The complete curriculum and lesson materials are available at: **[https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info](https://ucla-imls-open-sci.info)**

## Contact Information

For questions, feedback, or collaboration inquiries, please contact:

- **Tim Dennis** (Program Director) - [tdennis@library.ucla.edu](mailto:tdennis@library.ucla.edu) | [ORCID: 0000-0001-6632-3812](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6632-3812)
- **Zhiyuan Yao** (Program Coordinator) - [ORCID: 0000-0002-7601-8704](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7601-8704)

You can also:
- Open an issue on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ucla-imls-open-sci/ucla-imls-open-sci.github.io/issues)
- Indicate interest in piloting a lesson using our [Pilot Interest tracker](https://github.com/ucla-imls-open-sci/ucla-imls-open-sci.github.io/issues/new?template=pilot-interest.yml)

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from the community! We are especially interested in:

- **Lesson Pilots**: Community members interested in teaching or field-testing these materials
- **Feedback and Improvements**: Suggestions for enhancing lesson content, clarity, and accessibility
- **Bug Reports**: Identification of technical issues or errors in lessons
- **Translations**: Efforts to make these materials accessible in additional languages
- **New Lesson Ideas**: Proposals for additional open science topics

For detailed contribution guidelines, please see our [content management guide (GUIDE.md)](GUIDE.md).

To contribute:
1. Fork this repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name`)
3. Make your changes and commit them (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature-name`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## Credits and Acknowledgements

This project is led by the **UCLA Library Data Science Center** and funded by the **Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS)** as part of the Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian Program.

### Project Team

- **Todd Grappone** - University Librarian, UC Santa Barbara
- **Tim Dennis** - Program Director, UCLA
- **Zhiyuan Yao** - Program Coordinator, UCLA
- **Zikang Eric Huang** - Lesson Infrastructure Developer, UCLA
- **Lawrence Lee** - Lesson Infrastructure Developer, UCLA
- **Madeline Kim** - Lesson Infrastructure Developer, UCLA
- **Hyerin Lee** - UCLA
- **Emily Gong** - UCLA
- **Loretta Hu** - UCLA
- **Elizabeth McAulay** - UCLA

### Review Committee

- **Chris Erdmann** - Head of Open Science, SciLifeLab Data Centre
- **Cody Hennesy** - Computational Research Librarian
- **Elaine Westbrooks** - Carl A. Kroch University Librarian, Cornell University Library
- **Caroline Coward** - Information Science Manager, Jet Propulsion Lab, NASA
- **Yvonne Ivey** - Program Manager, NASA TOPS
- **Juliane Schneider** - Research Librarian, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory

### Lesson Authors

We are grateful to all lesson authors who have contributed their expertise to develop these curriculum modules. Individual lesson authors are credited on each lesson's repository and website.

## Citation

If you use these materials, please cite them as:

Dennis, T., Lee, L., Lee, H., Yao, Z., Gong, E., Hu, L., Huang, Z. E., McAulay, E., Grappone, T., Erdmann, C., & Kim, M. (2025). *Lessons for Librarians in Open Science Principles and Methods* (Version 1.0.6) [Software]. Zenodo. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18055759

For detailed citation information in various formats, please see our [CITATION.cff](CITATION.cff) file.

You can also cite this work using the DOI badge at the top of this README.

## License

The content of this project is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

The underlying source code used to format and display that content is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.txt).

See [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for more details.

## Authors

- [Tim Dennis](https://github.com/jt14den) - [ORCID: 0000-0001-6632-3812](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6632-3812)
- [Lawrence Lee](https://github.com/lawrencenlee) - [ORCID: 0000-0003-1529-2002](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1529-2002)
- Hyerin Lee
- [Zhiyuan Yao](https://github.com/zhiyuanyao) - [ORCID: 0000-0002-7601-8704](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7601-8704)
- Emily Gong
- Loretta Hu
- [Zikang Eric Huang](https://github.com/erhuang) - [ORCID: 0009-0007-9906-6067](https://orcid.org/0009-0007-9906-6067)
- [Elizabeth McAulay](https://github.com/emcaulay) - [ORCID: 0000-0002-8679-9727](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8679-9727)
- [Todd Grappone](https://github.com/tgrappone) - [ORCID: 0000-0003-2218-7200](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2218-7200)
- [Christopher Erdmann](https://github.com/libcce) - [ORCID: 0000-0003-2554-180X](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2554-180X)
- [Madeline Kim](https://github.com/madelinekim) - [ORCID: 0000-0002-2213-201X](https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2213-201X)

## Project Status and Activity

### Current Status: **Active** ✅

The project is in active maintenance and development. All 14 lessons have been developed and are available for use and piloting.

### Recent Activity

- **December 2025**: DOI registered on Zenodo (10.5281/zenodo.18055759)
- **2024-2025**: Beta piloting phase and Carpentries Incubator integration
- **September-December 2024**: Lesson refinement and alpha piloting
- **June-August 2024**: Collaborative lesson development workshop
- **April-May 2024**: Accepted lesson proposals announced

### Looking for Pilots!

We are actively seeking community members to pilot these lessons. If you are interested in teaching or field-testing any of these materials, please [indicate your interest here](https://github.com/ucla-imls-open-sci/ucla-imls-open-sci.github.io/issues/new?template=pilot-interest.yml).

---

## Technical Documentation

### Tech Stack

This site uses:
- **Framework**: Astro (v5)
- **Styling**: SCSS (Bootstrap-based Agency theme)
- **Content**: YAML data files and Markdown
- **Deployment**: GitHub Actions → GitHub Pages

### Development

#### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18 or higher recommended)
- npm

#### Quick Start

1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. Start the local development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Access the site at http://localhost:4321

3. Build for production:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```
   The output will be generated in the `dist/` directory.

### Managing Content

For detailed instructions on how to add lessons, update authors, or write blog posts, please refer to [GUIDE.md](GUIDE.md).

#### Key Data Files
- `src/content/lessons/`: **(New)** Individual YAML files for each curriculum module. This replaces the old `lessons.yml` database.
- `src/data/sitetext.yml`: Author profiles, staff list, and general site text
- `src/content/blog/`: Markdown files for blog posts
- `keystatic.config.ts`: Configuration for the Keystatic CMS

---

## GitHub Topics

This repository is tagged with the following topics for discoverability:
- `lesson`
- `carpentries`
- `open-science`
- `librarians`
- `curriculum`
- `data-science`
- `reproducibility`
- `imls`
- `english`
- `stable`

---

**Funded by**: Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) - Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian Program
**Hosted by**: UCLA Library Data Science Center
